1) to see history of commits
git log

2) creating a new branch do not create a copy of files and folders it just
create a new pointer to a specific commit.

3) merge,release 1, feature1, release 2 line diagram show interviewer

4) git tag <aman>
now my commit will have name=aman;
i did some commis now;
i find that these commits are not useful and i want to go back to aman and
delete all these commis so i do:
git checkout aman

5) When you run git tag aman, Git creates a tag named "aman" on your current 
commit. A tag is just like a label or bookmark. It marks that specific commit 
so you can easily return to it later. It does not change your name, it does 
not change your branch, and it does not affect future commits. It simply 
remembers that particular commit with the name "aman".

When you run git checkout aman, Git moves you to the commit that was marked 
by the tag "aman". Your project files will now look exactly like they were at 
that time. However, you are not on your normal branch anymore — you are in 
something called a "detached HEAD" state. This means you are just viewing 
that old commit. It does not delete any commits, and your branch history 
remains unchanged.

6) git tries to auto merge the merge conflict. fo e.g: same changes by
both. else it will mark it and you have to do it manually.

7) review changes: git status

8) to unstage a file:
git reset p.txt;
git rm --cached p.txt

9) to see what is changed but not staged.
git diff; it shows extact line by line diff;
- int x=10;
+ int x=20;
git status: tells what changed;
git diff: what exactly changed inside the files.

10) roll back to prev commit: git reset --hard

11) diff between git revert HEAD vs git reset --hard
safe when used in collaboration; safe when used in local
A->B->C ; A->B->C
A->B->C->D; A->B
D is new commit it undos changes made by C; deletes commit history
Hence preserves commit hisory

12) revert to a specific commit:
git reflog #gives commit id
git revert <commitId>

13) see list of branch:
git branch

14) create a new branch:
git branch feature1

15) switch to new branch:
git checkout feature1;

16) create and switch to new branch feature2;
git checkout -b feature2;

17) delete branch named feature2;
git branch -D feature2;

18) merge feature1 branch to master branch:
come at master branch;
git merge;
#now delete the feature1 branch:
git branch -d feature1;

19) git stash: temp save without commit;
to retrieve the saved thing: git stash pop;

20) push code from local to github
create repo in github;
myproject open in bash;
git init;
do work();
git add .
git commit -m "msg" ;
git remote add origin <copy HTTP url of github repo you created>
(instead of origin name can be anything)
(connection ban gaya remote repo se)
git push -u origin master #first time baad mai git push se ho jayega.

21) to know your repo name(here: origin)
git remote -v

22) push feature1 branch to github
git checkout feature1;
git push origin feature1;

23) from github to local how to bring changes:
git pull;

24) ek online repo ka code github mai kaise laayenge:
folder bnao myproject
http github repo url copy;
git clone <url>

25) .gitignore
cache/
.env
*.txt

26) your teammate did x=20 ; commit and pushed;
you did x=10 and when you try git pull it shows merge conflict;
you will have to solve it manually;
prevention of above():
* communicate who's working on what;
* pull before starting work to stay up to date;
* use small frequent commits - easier merge;

27) rename main to master: can do it if you are owner of the project;
go to settings and rename from there.

28)